cluster-tag-filter (#1059)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04-clusters/06-cluster-management/15-cluster-tag-filter.md

---
title: "Tag Based Access Control"
metaTitle: "Cluster Access Control Using "
metaDescription: "Clusters Location view on Map"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

# Overview

Palette provides granularity in toggling the access privileges using Tag Filtering.  This feature helps to set access privileges to clusters controlled using tags, roles, and permissions, Thereby filtering out the Clusters from multiple Projects to be accessible to you with different permissions and operations. 

## Major Steps:
* [Create Tag Filter](/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-tag-filter#createtagfilter)

* Create User and Assign Resource Role
  * Create New User
  * Assign Resource Role to the User

## Create Tag Filter

> You need to create a filter in Palette to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to create a filter in Palette:
```

To create a resource filter, 

> * Log in to Palette as **Tenant Admin** and go to **Tenant Settings** from the left main menu.

Reviewer: Line 30 is incomplete.

* To the **Create New Filter** wizard give the following information:
  * Filter Name: A custom name for the tag filter.
  * Filter expression to be created as per the below format: 

    |Conjunction| Property| Operator| Tag-Value|
    |-------|-----|---------|------------------|
    |and    | Tag | is      | Custom  tag value|
    |or     | Tag | is      | Custom  tag value|
    |and    | Tag | is not  | Custom  tag value| 
    |or     | Tag | is not  | Custom  tag value|  
    
* Click **Confirm** button to complete the filter creation wizard.

* The UI message will pop up to confirm the successful creation of the tag.

* Go to **Tenant Settings** -> **Filters** tab to access the **Manage Filters** page to find the filter name listed. You can **Edit** and **Delete** these filters from the three-dot (Kebab) menu toward the filter name.

## Assign Resource Role

Assign the resource role to new or existing users. Palette has a set of predefined Roles, which we refer to as **Global Roles** You can extend your permissions by creating New Roles. These roles can be assigned to you on demand.

<br />

### Create a New User

To create a new user in Palette:

> * Login to Palette as a Tenant Admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Log in to Palette as a Tenant Admin.
```

* Select **Users and Teams** from the left main menu and click on **+Create User** button.

* To **create user** wizard, provide the following information and click the **Confirm** button.
  * First Name
  * Last Name
  * Email
  * Team(s)

> * The UI pop-up message will confirm the user's creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A message displays that confirms the user was created successfully.
```

> * Validate the user creation from the **Users & Teams** page in the Tenant Admin console.

Reviewer: Line 81: A message displays that confirms the user was created successfully.

* [Resource Cluster Profile Viewer](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusterprofileviewer)

* [Resource Cluster Viewer](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusterviewer)

###  Custom Permissions and Operations

The set of customizable Permissions and Operations supported by Palette are as follows:

<br />

1. CloudAccount
   * Cloudaccount.get
   * cloudaccount.list

2. CloudConfig  
   * cloudconfig.delete  
   * cloudconfig.get  
   * cloudconfig.list  
   * cloudconfig.update

 3. Cluster  
    * cluster.delete  
    * cluster.get  
    * cluster.list  
    * cluster.update
   

4. ClusterProfile  
   * clusterProfile.delete  
   * clusterProfile.get  
   * clusterProfile.list  
   * clusterProfile.publish  
   * clusterProfile.update
   

5. DNS Mapping  
   * dnsMapping.get  
   * dnsMapping.list
  

6. Location  
   * location.get  
   * location.list

7.  Machine  
    * machine.get  
    * machine.list

8.  Macro  
    * macro.get  
    * macro.list

9.  Registry  
    * packRegistry.get  
    * packRegistry.list

To Assign resource role to the user:

<br />

> * Login to Palette as Tenant Admin

Reviewer: Line 188: Log in to Palette as Tenant Admin.

> * Login to Palette as Tenant Admin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Log in to Palette as Tenant Admin
```

* From the user details wizard, select **Resource Roles** Tab and click **+ New Resource Role**.

* In the **Add Roles to User** wizard, enter the following details:
  * **Projects**: The projects to which the user is assigned.
  * **Filers**: Select the filters to be assigned from the drop-down. The Filters created will be displayed in the drop-down menu.
  * Select the **check box** to assign the roles to the user from the list displayed. These are Palette built-in roles.

* Click **Confirm** to complete the Add Role wizard.

* The UI pop-up message will confirm the successful completion of the role assignment.

## Assign Custom Resource Roles to the User

Palette enables users to create `Custom Resource Roles` and assign them to the user. 

<br />

### Create Custom Roles

To create your custom resource roles in Palette:

* Log in to Palette as Tenant Admin and select **Roles** from the left main menu.

* Click **+Create Resource Role** button to open the **Add New Role (Resource)** wizard. 
  * Custom name for the role
  * Select permissions and operations as per the user's requirements 

> * Once the required permissions are selected, click the **Save** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select required permissions and save your changes.
```

> * A UI pop-up message will confirm the successful creation of the new custom resource role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A message displays that confirms the new custom resource role was created successfully.
```

> * Validate the role creation from **Roles** tab from the left main menu and go to **Resource Roles** tab. The New role will be listed on this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the left main menu, click the **Resource Roles** tab to validate the new role is listed.
```

Reviewer: It's unclear if the **Resource Roles** tab and **Roles** tab are the same thing. Offered suggestion above.

> ---

Author: name changed
